that's
funny okay uh it is a
70 one I am calling to order the Monday
February 3rd Special meeting budget
Workshop
uh four members of the board of
selecting are in attendance and our
first order of business is the Pledge of
Allegiance I pledge allegiance to the
flag of the United States of America and
to the Republic for which it stands one
nation under God indivisible with
liberty and justice
justice okay item two public speak Liz
Loach here here I am sorry trying to
unmute uh uh no just uh trying to stay
educated if that's going to happen thank
you Joan
Ebert yep just here to listen thank you
Kimberly
psan just listening thank you okay all
public
speak I believe I've got everybody I
miss
anybody okay item three budget workshop
for fiscal year 2025 2026 proposed Tom
budget
which we did receive today from uh the
Town
Administrator
um yes Mr Maguire I would like to make a
motion to postpone this meeting to
another time when we can uh review these
documents in a timely fashion sending
them out at nine o'clock in the morning
the day of the meeting is not acceptable
to
me what your uh well somebody should
should be timely with the meeting notice
somebody just
just someone second that I second it of
course all right um what would be your
recommendation
to uh I want to see it within time ofin
warning I I'm not asking that I'm not
asking that I'm asking you when's our
first when's our meeting when do you
want to reschedule we vote for this when
are you rescheduling to let's see when's
our regular meeting next week we have
this as part of that meeting as
well just take it up at the next
meeting I I can't I don't want to
discuss anything tonight that I haven't
even seen it makes no sense to
me we got to get these documents in a
timely manner I I Jeff I understand I
have only a few things that I would like
to discuss we will keep this meeting
extremely brief okay well maybe we can
discuss but I do not want to take any
action on anything taking any we can
have some discussion but I don't want I
don't want to um I don't want to vote or
take any action on
anything that's fine um Eric you did
send us uh so so are we gonna vote on
this we have we have a motion on the
floor so are we gonna vote to postpone
this meeting or not I'll withdraw my all
those in favor I'll just withdraw it's
fine okay
um Eric you sent us an email that
included the budget workshop and a
capital fund summary correct all right
um I don't
really I I I care about a lot of these
issues but I want to understand a couple
things just from my standpoint so uh
just so the board just so we have an
understanding
um employee non-unionized employee rate
increases
3% it's whatever a global I just I'm
just asking you as you built it 3%
I more what is in the budget currently
is
4% but that is all but only because
that's what you the board of Selectmen
did last year so I kept it the same that
is a board of Selectmen prerogative and
understood and just so we're all aware
the union increases range but pretty
much are in the 3% to a little bit
3.2% correct correct okay
um obviously current year taxes are our
biggest issue because we're g to if we
if we go up if we have an increase we're
going to raise taxes so across the board
you have listed out every entity
within the town government Ram AES and
ours is
up that is correct okay and
did you to is the total 377 for all
three entities or just ours no that is
that is just the to just the
to okay all right
um I I'm just going to go quick because
I have a few things and I don't I just
want clarification the senior
Transportation Grant you have no revenue
for that is that correct they
discontinued the
grant it's unclear
we haven't actually gotten any money
from that Grant in a year and a half um
almost two years State Grant or Federal
grant it's a state Grant I'm un well
it's a state pass through of federal
funding and I'm unclear why we're not
because we're submitting the paperwork
to get reimbursed but we haven't gotten
reimbursed so I'm trying to get Tess to
to check in and understand why we're not
not getting funded for that but until
such time as we know we're going to
actually get Revenue I can't count it as
Revenue okay uh interest income can you
just make a uh I know you have it based
on income in stiff account but make sure
that we get a flow of what you're
anticipating keeping in there I know
that is up $10,000 which isn't a lot but
I'd like to know that that's fairly on
point um
administrator line uh your requested
increase is
4% just so that's what's in uh the
contract okay um that's in the contract
okay
under in your notes in column M pleas
please put that
um no increase on the treasurer the
assistant treasurer's wages are part of
the Union contract
yes okay and
uh just so we're aware please make sure
when we do discuss this we talk about
the assistant Treasurer stien
5000 that conversation is going to have
to happen with the the treasurer because
that's kind of her department so my
suggestion I don't know whether she can
be here on the 10th I think she's
traveling but certainly on the meeting
meeting at the 13th that can be a a can
she send us an email on that just so we
understand what she's what it's what
it's being requested so we understand
what it's going to be used for um
y the town clerk
salary um a 5% increase on the town
clerk's
salary um I I understand that's part of
the
budget I just so I'm not putting
anything so I don't know what we're
doing it's going to depend a lot on you
as a board how you want to proceed with
the town clerk
position and who you want to hire and
when so the only thing I have right now
is we have we know we have a union
assistant Town
Clerk and we know what her wages are
if nothing else
changes um you know the 60,000 are we
going to have a town CLK those those
dollars will be utilized in a in some
manner I just wanted to understand the
5% is coming from the town clerk's
budget or from
you uh it's not 5% it's a Well it's not
5% but in column M you wrote 5% I'm
looking at the the hidden column I'm
trying to understand I'm trying to make
sure I understand what you're looking at
what you're
doing I'm not sure where you're even
looking okay and look look at your
spreadsheet do you want me to share my
spreadsheet sure go ahead
oh and that's not what you sent us
that's a that's in one of the tabs um
all right go to the town clerk
tab
okay okay go to the first page the main
budget and and I need to understand
um in the column M there if you go to
the town section which is row
63 all
right right you sent us a different
one all right if I did then I apologize
well I mean this has good notes I mean I
don't know I have the same one Eric
has you have the same one Amic has
yeah yeah I do
too okay I got to I got a better I got
it
off so this one that I have says 5%
request from Tom clerk Board of Finance
decision 5% Tom clerk request next one
says set by
Union all I I got I got different
information so I will not refer to row M
anymore uh but yes we do need to
understand what's going to happen with
the ton Clerk and we do do we set her
salary or is that one specifically as an
elected official set by the board of
Finance so the long and the short of it
is it depends on whether you're calling
her the town clerk or the assistant town
clerk because if you call her the
assistant town clerk technically in an
acting town clerk yeah then you do set
their salary but there's an existing
Union contract so you would have to
negotiate anything other than what's in
the contract with the Union okay because
of the position and because of the
situation we're in that money needs to
be budgeted it may stay on the town
clerk line but will be potentially
reallocated to cover costs for that
department that's how I Envision it
right okay that's why I left it you know
the full
expense in there but what I'm saying is
it doesn't seem like that's something
that that in in a sense is a board of
Selectmen decision not a Town
Administrator
decision because until you know how you
want to proceed as a
board then it's hard to say what that
should
be okay um
okay uh the tax collector
salary
increase the so I'm really trying to
focus on the wages just to make sure
that we're understanding what what's
going the tax collector salary uh let's
go back to that because that shows it a
lot easier if you don't
mind uh where's Ted ta
collector there's tax
collector yes so if you remember right
when we hired Kate morsy at the tax
collector we initially hired her at a
rate uh quite a bit lower than the old
tax collector was making but what we did
was we conditioned her salary pretty
heavily on completing all the required
courses to be a certified Municipal tax
collector so that's the the big
difference in the salary range is just
the fact that she is rapidly completing
the courses required to become certified
which is what we're trying to encourage
her to do
understood that uh the assistant uh the
assessor salary assistant sess salary
it's
a it's not assistant assessor it's the
assistant
whatever um set by Union contract
correct all right the registrars and the
assistant registar salary
increased
increases um I just want you to look at
that and make sure that that's enough
for all of the aggravation that those
guys go through well that is exactly
what they asked for they asked for an
increase uh again they asked for a
pretty good increase last year and again
this year just based on the increased
workload relative to what they have to
do considering the changes the election
landscape okay election salaries stayed
the same from a budgeting standpoint um
the building department all of those are
union
contracts correct building department is
the building department
admin is a Union contract
um
the uh so the uh agreement with the
building official is a shared use
agreement between us and Folton that's
got another year or two years I think
one more year in that contract before
that gets
renegotiated and uh the Inland Wetlands
agent um he doesn't have a
specific uh contract he is just an
employee so you set his wage uh and
salary
increase um and the uh new zoning
official who will take over from Jim
sometime later this month he will be
officially appointed by the the Planning
and Zoning commission and Jim will
retire I did the same thing I did with
him with the tax collector which is
brought him in making considerably less
than his predecessor but with a pathway
in place for him to get the
qualifications necessary to be a queso
certified zoning official at which point
his salary will be appropriate for his
position so in the short term for a
couple years we're saving on him until
he gets fully
certified okay uh the line on that same
section the town planner is an increase
of
$112,000 so it's actually not it's the
same fee we've been paying for the town
planner it just because in the past we
had been putting money into a Permanent
Fund to pay for the plan of conservation
and development update instead of just
paying a consultant to do the update we
made a decision to hire a town planner
and have that town planner responsible
for the update so the last two years
I've been offsetting a quarter of his
salary with the Permanent Fund money but
that may or may not run out this year
it's going to depend How We Do budget
wise this year
um um whether there's that excess funds
to pay him um you know so I'm budgeting
the full cost of the Town planner
basically
in this budget okay uh the library
payroll that's uh provided to you by the
library uh
director uh I got a recommendation for
funding from the library director um and
then we back checked it based on the
number of hours and a proposed wage that
will keep us enough above minimum wage
that we don't have to
next February or next January when the
new wage rates go into effect um we
don't have to bring them up to that so
basically they're making somewhere
around you know
3% over minimum wage assuming that with
inflation that when the minimum wage
changes again next January we won't have
to address their their salary or their
their hourly we
we got it pretty well correct this year
I think uh we were off and we had to
bring them up as a January 1 like six
cents an hour
um all right you have um on the
community center you have increases to
the wages for the director and the
assistant correct so and that's that's
got to be a big discussion point with
the board I mean I do think that
position should be
full-time uh um but the question is can
we afford it and is that direct the
direction the board wants to go but
that's assuming she keeps the
same rate that's in her
contract um but goes from 26 to 34 hours
a week of employment essentially being a
full-time employee with the expectations
of that so have you built into if this
happens she doesn't need health
insurance and this director but have we
built this in you know that's something
that has to be considered if we're going
to do that as a group so th this one is
a big one to have a discussion about so
and then the assistant is also going
from what 10 hours a week to 20 hours a
week uh no the the last year's budget
didn't actually include an
insistent um but since I hired the
director as a part-time position and the
director didn't require us to provide
health care because she's covered
already I had enough budgetary money to
move there and hire an assistant for
that position and that assistant was
half the
year just explain the increase from
5,300 to
10,000 so yeah she was not on the full
year um and right now she's not working
a full 10 hours anyway so um okay yes
all right
um this is just an odd question for me
on the the town office building there's
money in there for payroll services
why
161 I didn't really need to call this
one out but I am asking the general
question why do we have Payroll Services
when the assistant Tre does that sure no
that's a good question because we're uh
still using the time
clocks we have to pay the company that
uh we still have to pay the the
timekeeping company that manage or that
uh that that's done under because those
time clocks are not compatible with our
existing system okay so it's not really
payroll service it's uh the leasing or
the rental of the
the the thumb scans
time time no we own the thumb scans but
we don't own what that thumb scan data
goes to and the the so we still use uh
Prime pay for part of it we don't do
payroll through them directly but we use
prime pay to kind of collate the
information and then do do the payroll
in
QuickBooks all right so I got
it um health and dental is
increasing
um do we have we have they settled up on
the prior year for what we needed to do
with them or
there's in terms of we're in the
Consortium still right we are in the
Consortium and have they given you I
mean are they telling you it's going to
be an X increase or we're just assuming
it's going to be flat because that's
fairly flat for me no there so the
increase in health care this year is an
8%
increase however we are reducing ing the
number of people on that health care and
that lowers our costs overall so our
increase isn't going up that much not
because the health care costs aren't
going up but because we're reducing the
number of people we covering okay
understood all
right and why are we increasing the murf
on a like state does not establish the
rate what what is the thought so as of
today um I need to go change that
addendum we got it from the state today
what the new murf rate is which is
16.71% from the
town
from uh was
15 um no actually it was
like it ended up being like
16.6% last year so it only went up a
little bit but last year we were
budgeting like
15.8% because we didn't get the
notification until long after the budget
was passed okay so in your column M can
you make just make notes that this was
last year this is this year's percentage
that would be
beneficial all right
okay oh so you're back looking at the
main budget page well that's what I look
at I mean I look at I mean I'm just
gonna tell everybody what I did I just
took the main budget sheet I wanted to
sit there and see the increases and the
decreases on each individual
line understanding that we as a board
have to deal with salaries so I focused
on salaries and and how they went up or
down Y and then I went and if I saw a
line item that either you know for the
most part went up higher than I would
expect I I highlighted it and I'm just
asking a basic question just to get an
understanding of what's up I mean sure
we we as a board just need to look at
this and then come back and say this is
what our expectations are this is where
we should be putting more time and
energy and focus on so certainly I'm
going to go through the next salary line
item that's under public works this one
kind of doesn't strike me sit sit with
me it's six and a half percent increase
they're all Union guys except for Jay
correct so why is that that is a a
recommendation for from Jay to promote
Mark Williams from maintainer one to
maintainer 2 because the reality is he's
a really experienced machine
operator um that's been doing
excavation and Public Works type stuff
now for a little over 40 years um so
although we hired him as a maintainer
one when we first took him on he's
certainly capable in in the category and
has the experience necessary to be a
maintainer
to so that's the that's a recommendation
to promote Mark Williams from maintainer
one to
two all right I'll write that one
down um transfer station
wages uh the wages will go up by
whatever fraction uh you have 4% here
yep
correct but again that's just a
placeholder because that's what the
board decided last year last year so you
put in last year's number so we need to
sit there and address that okay all
right brush pile removal was not
budgeted for last year it's being
budgeted for this year the brush pile is
large enough that it needs to go away
this year correct correct and we don't
need to do it every other year we need
to do it every second or every third
year um we did it uh very early in the
budget or very early in the summer in
the not this year but the year before so
it gives us the flexibility at some
point either next summer or the
following spring we'll have to address
the brush pile okay
um custodian wages went
down yes not because Willie doesn't get
a raise he certainly will get the same
raise as other Town employees but last
year we we were kind of throwing darts
at a board trying to understand how many
hours it would take them additionally to
clean the community center um so that
total number of hours has been less than
we're anticipating so we don't need um
you know even with the other additional
stuff he's doing for the town he's under
what we were in anticipating for hours
so that represents less total hours of
work on his part um at whatever wage the
town
establishes okay um under 4417 senior
citizens the senior lunch number um this
is just a global thing for us we for the
board we need to really look at that
number and make sure that that number is
in line with what they're spending right
so we may need to overfund that
that's just that's a call out for
everybody
um and under the Andover senior
Transportation you're calling out the
vehicle maintenance line
yep so is the number that you've put in
here commiserate with what you think
we'll spend on them so $99,000 is is
what is in this line that I'm looking at
yeah looking at it looking at the last
multiple years we've ended up we've
budgeted less but we keep ending up
spending somewhere around $9,000 a year
in maintenance on the vehicles so yeah I
think that's
appropriate okay um going to that we we
should really work on our grant writing
on those things to make sure that we get
buses every year every other year and
and change the fleet over as much as we
possibly
can I I don't disagree those are not uh
those grants certainly aren't gimmies um
you know in the past we've gotten it
every second to third time we've applied
for it but we definitely need to apply
for it this year and try to replace the
2014 van because that thing is falling
apart because you know Dodges aren't
made that well in the
beginning um well the reason they're
falling apart is we don't clean the salt
off in the winter and they rust out most
of the repairs we've been doing have
been corrosion related
so something needs to be done about
getting those buses clean in the winter
because they just sit there and they
just rust out and they sit there and
nobody cleans
them and that's the major number one
problem of the failures we're having the
maintenance they need to be maintained
and they're not getting
maintained all of the uh DPW equipment
gets cleaned after every storm yeah but
why doesn't that yeah I'm I'm talking
about
I talk about that's what I'm saying why
can't they be taken down there and
cleaned you know once every two weeks or
a week every something like that it's a
good question
Scott I mean the number one reason I've
seen the frames being welded because of
corrosion we're getting things replaced
because of corrosion number one reason
when those vehicles are wearing out is
because of corrosion and lack of
maintenance on our
end and I just think it's it's it's
terrible that we don't maintain our
vehicles and get the salt off them I
mean I mean I have a 10-year-old truck
and it looks brand new underneath
because I put salt neutral neutralizer
on it and I clean it all the time in the
winter we should be doing the
same all right let's let's put some
money in for
that and actually that just seems like
that's a rotational thing Eric you
should be able to get that those
Vehicles down there for the Department
of Public Works to do that for
us yeah been saying it for years it just
hasn't happened I don't know why but it
just seems like it keeps falling off the
radar all right so that's something we
should put in the budget now then
Jeff absolutely I mean I mean for what
it's going to cost us to to clean those
Vehicles we're going to get that much
more life out of them and and what they
cost I mean I think it's just crazy that
we just let them sit there and rust in
the parking lot it's crazy well we have
$9,000 in there for vehicle maintenance
to me I'm just sitting there saying this
doesn't sound like a money issue this
sounds like we have to sit there and and
execute on the cleanup so yeah and if we
can even I mean there may be even
somebody mobile that can come and detail
the cars and wash them I don't know but
I looked into it a while ago about
seeing if there was a truck stop or like
see if the truck stop up in Willington
had a truck wash but they don't because
that would be the best thing to do is
bring it through a big high Bay Truck
Wash I'm confused how do we do our own
trucks I thought Scott said they take a
power washer to them they do them up
down at the down there yeah yep after
every storm they do it yeah and they put
fluid film on them too right we don't do
that on our senior Transportation
Vehicles the state requires every driver
to clean his truck after he comes in so
an eight hour shift they go in that
driver is responsible for cleaning the
truck and Underside okay the next guy
gets in it and drives it we're not going
to require that of our drivers for no
I'm not I'm not saying but what we
should do is require let's say the day
after the storm right they be taken to
Public Works and spray it off as best
they can be and and Jeff is probably
right that we should find a car wash
that or truck wash that can handle them
well another thing too is like there's
Mr Sparkle and there's one in will manic
I believe there's one in Manchester
Vernon and we can just get an account
with a card and if the drivers take
somebody to a medical and while they're
waiting for them to come out they can
just go running through the car wash
especially for the Rav 4 and the minivan
that's a no-brainer well the Rav 4 and
the minivan I can definitely see the
other two the other vehicles I don't
think they'll fit through those yeah but
I don't think we're even watching those
at this point and how long are those
going to last if we're just driving them
and parking them full with salt all
underneath all right it's um like $20 a
month for the service for car wash
service so
um yeah and they wash underneath and
everything so it's just uh it's it's
just a no-brainer to me I mean I wash my
car every day when it goes hi I don't
care when it snows so yep I do my clean
underneath mine and I hit it with salt
neutralizer and like I said they should
be prepped with fluid film in the fall
uh to coat the bottoms and um and they
should be treated better it's it's just
it's a shame what's going on with those
Vehicles all right well let's try to do
better
um the senior Transportation salaries we
still have to address that
it's it's coming down it's coming down
that we got significant amount back from
federal government reimbursement half
the
average when you say those things ER
wait that's you're not looking at this
year's budget you got to be looking at
last year's I'm looking I'm looking at
my budgets I'm looking I have the right
numbers like you have I might be not be
looking at you're write notes but this
is what you detached to the email that I
opened
it is what it is I mean I'm not the
numbers I'm I'm asking you about are all
like when I say vehicle maintenance
$9,000 right yeah correct okay that's
what I'm looking at I also
see I also see notes in M that I think I
got an email I don't know how I got it
whatever but I have the right numbers
for the most part in the proposed budget
line item and we're only I'm only asking
in general terms so so when I get the
next one that you send me you will have
the right notes and you will have the
right numbers that match up across
everything
um I'm not worried about that nothing
there um the biggest dollars you know
here are on this recommission programs
$46,000 uh a $40,000 increase
I I I read somewhere I think in your
email that it's related to basketball
hoops in the
gym that's the only information I have
um the rec commission you
know doesn't share other information so
I don't know exactly what it is they're
proposing I'm sure I'm sure they're
trying to get basketball hoops that
raise up and raise down yeah but
probably but makes sense
I mean we just bought brand new
backboards for that
gym not more than five years ago six
years
ago
um uh that that is a want not a
need so we need to address that
one all right the um community garden
went
up the community garden did go up the
community garden went up 200 well
actually the community garden went down
200 well I'm seeing it what what do you
have as community garden
number no yeah you're right it went down
couple hundred dollars it went down
um I mean the community garden in and of
itself is is a great Venture we just
have to make sure that it is has more it
it is more participated in by a wider
group of individuals within the town
because last year there were only two
individuals that were really
participating in the community guarding
so that funding went to that and they
did donate a significant amount of food
to but that's something we should look
at so but I don't think in this year's
plan because they didn't have a very
good response from the food pantry I
don't think they're intending to do that
again this year intending to donate the
food
correct well then maybe they need to
have uh uh
um
um they need to have a food a garden
stand and sell it so that they can pay
for their money that is needed to run
the community garden
so we'll look at that one
um all right so now you get into your
your Capital
spend so I just want to go over this
last piece of this so you have
contingency $50,000 same
number
uh the multi-use building fund
$50,000 the uh fire engine fund tanker
$137,000 Public Works equipment fund
$25,000 Road Improvement fund
$410,000 tree removal fund
$50,000 The Bunker Hill Bridge fund is
zero U we don't need it right it's long
as nothing changes in the federal
government it's completely paid for um
Building Maintenance fund $50,000 AES
Capital fund $100,000 and an open space
fund
$50,000 right and so what I would say is
the three that we really shouldn't be
reducing are the fire engine fund Public
Works equipment fund and bridg and
Culvert fund because those three are
basically necessary at the current
funding levels to meet our
obligations um The Ref rest of them it's
negotiable what you want to fund and
what you don't want to fund
okay all right um so those were the the
highlights that I I pulled off in my
initial review
um obviously if you look at Eric's email
and you go we're up$ 370,000
$77,000 on the town budget and we're up
9% and AES is up 8.8% Ram is up
3.9% that we're all up and we're all up
pretty high
so I have no problem ending the meeting
and asking Eric to revise his his
spreadsheet so this is the preliminary
spreadsheet we all have we all should
look at it Eric revised the spreadsheet
and send it back out to us as you get
improvements to this
uh I just guess I asked I would ask the
board now when do you want to meet again
because if we meet next Monday in our
regular meeting we're not going to have
enough time to go over
this so we need to set up another
date I I I know we've talked about uh
dealing with
this having a conversation about the
budget at the next meeting to pass it on
and move forward but we need to have a a
meeting
between either today and and and next
Monday when our meeting is right our
meeting's Monday or after our meeting
before the 12th
because the 12th we have a meeting with
the board of
Finance
um yeah we have a meeting on the board
of Finance so we realistically have the
11th
um so do you want to do so right now on
our schedule we have a meeting on all of
us I believe are coming on the 6th for
the
roads we have a meeting on the 10th with
a regular scheduled meeting and then we
have a meeting on the 12th which is uh
potential meeting with the board of
Finance so when does everybody want to
do
this okay 11th
11th all
right so Eric um I'll make a that we
schedule a budget a special um a special
meeting budget workshop for February
11th six
o'clock seven o' six o'clock or seven
o'clock well let's just do it at six
o'clock and give us an hour before the
regular meeting and get this done no the
regular meeting's on the 10th oh sorry
sorry
so I mean listen if you feel that we can
do it the before the a regular meeting
on the 10th I'd do
it that only gives us an hour though I'm
not going to be available after the 11th
I'm going to be traveling for
work um no but you had a reasonably good
idea can we do it within an hour before
our regular meeting on the
10th yeah I'm fine done with it is I
just want to see the revised spreadsheet
on Friday so we could so give me some
time to go over it and review
it well you haven't made any changes so
or suggested any we would we would we
would be making the changes on the
between six and seven o'clock before a
regular meeting we'd have a special
meeting right but to Jeff's Point what
changes do you want to
see in the budget before that meeting no
said he wants to see Chang byid you had
some things you needed to revise that's
what I'm saying can we see the revised
it's going to be 98% of what you
currently have at least I'm going to get
a new one um and then we can all review
it before our meeting and then listen I
I look at this very simply we
have we need to look at the capital
everybody's got to look very hard at the
capital spending and make sure that
everybody's com comfortable with those
numbers and then we need to sit there
and look at at wages and make sure that
we're comfortable with the wages for the
non-union employees and where we go with
those percentages because we have some
issues with those those increases
because we can't outpace the union or
we're going to have a problem the next
time we negotiate with the Union so
everybody needs to be aware of that as
we sit there and go back in and look at
numbers so the union percentages are 3
to
3.2 I know last year we gave a little
bit of an extra increase because of
inflation to non-un employees but we
have to watch that
so um yeah I think even those wages in
line with what the way what the union
spend is and my personal opinion is need
to keep that Community Center person
part-time and I would eliminate the
right now from what I've seen eliminate
the open the $50,000 for open space for
this year
well I have no problem eliminating the
open space I I would sit there and I I
have I'm telling you there's no need for
basketball oops Yeah that that that is
well that would I think that would
probably be okay
um I was support that too so those those
items I just don't think we can shoulder
them this year to be
honest so the three things you want to
see in a revised
budget from relative to this is is a
3% increase for
non-union uh
employees the reduction of the
$40,000 uh that the is a request from
the
basketball
uh the rec Commission
an increase to the senior luncheon
funding okay to what
works I mean what are we going to spend
this
year how far over budget are you going
to be this year and come up with a
number that makes sense for what we
spent this year
so
again that depends on how much of the
program you want to
subsidize it it really comes down to
this what Tess is proposing I think is a
$6,300 budget which is a $1,300 increase
over this year um
so that can certainly go up let let's
raise it to increasing the charges to
the seniors let's yeah let's let's
increase the the the town commitment to
that to
12,500 and lower the cost for the
seniors okay you want to set back jumped
the price
otherwise okay and
all right well one one complaint I heard
is there was a lot of no- shows so
something they may want to she may want
to consider is doing a prepayment for
the if they're there for the luncheon
and the next lunch's coming up they
could sign up for the next lunch and
prepay for maybe like a $2 discount or
something and just say it's
non-refundable that way you know that
that person is paid and they're
coming because people say they're coming
they order food and they don't show up
and you're you're sitting there paying
for a lunch and that for somebody that
didn't even come
uh that's been an issue I guess ongoing
yeah Eric come back to us on that just
understand from from my end and I you
know I'm just sitting there thinking
that that is one of those programs that
you know we we notorious notoriously are
over budget on and we should really
think of a more appropriate way to fund
it
and not totally increase the seniors
costs on that program I mean not not
kill them as B basically what I'm saying
so supplement them in an appropriate
fashion all right okay you can come back
on it knowing that we'd be willing so
you come back to us with what you and
and and Tess believe and and get with
Kathy get with Carol whoever you need to
get with get an understanding of what we
can potentially do and then come back to
us with uh a different number so we know
what the program is going to look like
but that one is always
underfunded has been under funded always
ends up over budget and we always end up
moving the money from somewhere else I'd
rather have a better plan with that and
get it accomplished
and just keep being over
budget um the other one was uh open
space funding eliminate that you're
gonna eliminate it
entirely well are we going to really I
mean we're funding that and so how much
money is currently in open space
3:30 is that right Eric I'll tell you in
a second and does Planning and Zoning or
anybody have any
uh it currently has $284,100
l so that we can buy something when it
comes up otherwise it's too tight to be
able to buy it we should have a plan
because you know every year people pick
on the open space fund then next year we
put it back in but what if we split in
half and just keep it in there
regular maybe
that I could support
that yeah and Jeff the other one was the
senior
there the community center position and
what what made me think about that is
you know the assistant's not even using
all her hours so it's not like
we're and and adding that to a full-time
position is only going to gain eight
hours anyway so for me the extra money
it's just not worth it at this point
well the whole thing the whole thing
with that is it's it's not
U like I'm probably on the other side of
that one from you Jeff because I
honestly believe that we need to we need
to work on that position
and we need to do a better job of of
getting more people engaged
so well in defense of that it's only
been in going for six months so I'd like
to see it for at least go for a year and
like I said the assistant has not been
using all of her hours so if there's a
requirement there for people to be
Staffing that then she would be booked
on her all her hours and and Tessa's
hour hours would be booked and and we're
not seeing that right now so I
have severe heartburn adding hours to
that that position when we're not even
burning the hours that the the director
and the assistant are using at this
point it makes no sense well I would say
the director currently is working well
more than full-time already she's just
not getting compensated for
it okay
um well like I was saying I think we
gotta sit there
and we gotta P that and we all have to
support it because to me
it's it's a it's a community center and
it's a director that you want to sit
there and build programs and they're
building programs from the ground up I
mean the only program the
only the only legitimate programs that
we have in town that have been executed
are senior
lunch you know I'll give pickle ball a
shout out because they go to the gym and
use it regularly Men's Basketball goes
to gym and and that's not even
coordinated to be really honest those
two and then you have wrecked basketball
that's it yeah but what new have we
created oh answer me that question Jee
and why do we need a full-time person we
haven't even created anything so if we
start seeing these programs all start
springing up I'm all I'm all forward
adding to that position but I haven't
seen it to be honest with you I haven't
seen
it well that's where you're building it
from nothing you're going to sit there
and have some effort to sit there we
buil from nothing and i' still I still
haven't seen anything Jeff je why don't
why don't you go in and have a
conversation with the senior center
director and go over with the calendar
and talk about what things are
programmed and then if you still have a
concern for it then go from there I've
already seen it I've already seen
it okay okay um so we'll have
discussions on that including all of the
salaries and all of the comp ation
across everybody all right um is there
anything else that anybody wants him to
sit there and take a look at before our
meeting
on are we are we meeting that hour
before our meeting is that what we're CH
choosing to do or are we meeting on the
11th we probably should meet on the 11th
be really honest yeah I will not be
there I will be
traveling on the 11th or the 12th
because on the 11th I am traveling on
the 11th
all right then let's do it on the 10th
six o'clock so Eric if you can schedule
a special meeting budget meeting before
our
uh why not just have it as your regular
meeting and have the first agenda
item budget
discussion no started at six o'clock and
let's get it over by S because our our
meeting on Monday is is going to be a
long one okay so you want a special
meeting at 6: p.m. and then you want to
adjourn the special meeting to a regular
meeting at 7 pm for the board of
selectman meeting yes is that correct
yes sir okay all right is everybody in
agreement with that anybody have a
problem with
that no okay Eric if you do have time
you
know what what I have one question
tonight
uh it's back on the the budget
underground care it says mowing is that
the mowing of Lawns somewhere or is that
the side the side of the road mowing or
what is that no that mowing is for two
things it's for the mowing in in ground
care in general related to the athletic
fields that also includes the fee for Mr
clarkco um also includes a little bit of
money for sprinkler maintenance and then
it includes all the other mowing that
the town does which is uh you know Town
Hall um veterans uh
Monument um there's about five locations
that get mowed on a weekly or bi-weekly
basis long thank
you all right thanks a lot yep
okay anybody have anything that they
want to discuss with Eric before we
adjourn all right Eric so if you can uh
send us out a revised budget before
Friday sooner the better so we can
review it and ask questions of you
beforehand if possible so that we can um
use our time wisely on Monday
uh Monday yes so you're GNA send it out
to us this F before this Friday so we
can review it before our Monday meeting
at six o'clock I will try to get it out
to you tomorrow since you've made pretty
minimal revisions that should be totally
doable
okay all
right anybody else have anything they
want to add yeah just one can we roll up
if we take that uh Senior Center
Director position what's the change so
she's not going to take any of the
benefits so there's not going to be any
increase on the benefit line item
correct
correct anything else just a followup
question she's not going to get a bigger
rebate or
refund from full-time to part-time from
part part-time full-time and that's you
mean a bigger I thought she was I
thought she wasn't taking benefits so
she was getting that stip end in l of
not taking the
benefits yeah but that stays the same
regardless the same whether if you're
part-time or full-time correct correct
okay I'm just just verifying that
correct anybody
else okay
make a motion that we
jurn oh I can't
sorry well we didn't put it in here but
we should do public
speak um unless somebody has an an issue
are all the other board of member uh
Board of Select members good with what
we're we're doing right now any other
questions before we we move
on okay so if there's nobody
uh saying so I'm going to move on to uh
public speak so that we can allow the
individuals that have patiently listened
to us speak so Liz
lat thanks I'm all set okay Joanne Ebert
yeah Jeff I just want to um because you
talked about it a lot I wasn't planning
on speaking but that senior community
center director position
I seem to remember last year all the
conversations centering around it being
there was you know there were so many
discussions about should it be part-time
should it be full-time and the end
result was that it was supposed to be a
full-time position but it looks like
what happened and then there was a
salary amount and a limit set you know I
remember this vividly because it
probably took a couple meetings to go
through different things and so I think
the whole problem could have been solved
if the salary restraints you know if the
person would have been hired at fulltime
maybe the 34 or 35 hours that the town
of
Andover um you know do work in a
full-time position so now I think it's
got this caveat here because the person
was hired at a higher salary that was
intended to be full-time that's all I
just want to get that out there because
it was such a point of cont attention
tonight and then I know there's now an
additional person there I see where Jeff
Maurice coming from you know you both
make valid points you want it to grow
it's a great building you want the
programs there but it's a shame
that you know I think that's what
happened so now we're at this point
where adding even more money to the
budget or not when if the salary
restraints or or suggestions were
followed then we'd have a full-time
person that's all thank you
a Kimberly
person um nothing tonight thank
you okay I don't think I missed anybody
I think we're good somebody want to make
a motion to
adjourn I'll move the we motion to adj
okay so Scott made a motion to adjourn
and seconded all those in favor I I okay
four or nothing Eric thank you um send
us out the uh revision and uh we can
stop broadcasting now thank you very
much okay bye